SAUL: Previously
on Homeland...
JUDGE: (speaking Dari)
Death.
(overlapping shouting)
G'ulom had a one-on-one
with Hayes yesterday.
First thing this morning,
Hayes demands new voices
on Afghanistan.
Guess who's in the Oval Office
right now.
John Zabel.
Get in there before Zabel
gets his feet under the table.
Make the case.
Haqqani dies,
Afghanistan goes up in flames.
It took ten years
to get Osama bin Laden,
but he avenged Ralph Warner's
murder in, what, three days.
Well, I can
hardly claim credit.
I think that you can, sir.
It's what that part
of the world understands.
(chuckles)
An eye for an eye,
a punch in the fucking nose.
I had it.
The black box.
(breathing heavily)
He sold it to some other guy.
They took it somewhere,
it was Koa or Kowa--
-Kohat.
-Yeah.
Yeah.
It's Jalal Haqqani,
I'm sure of it.
G'ulom has his father,
he has Max.
This is a bad situation.
Where the hell
is the extraction team?
They can't put together
an operation
in a matter of hours.
I need a gun.
(tense music)
MIKE: You get into trouble,
I'm leaving you.
(grunting)
(groaning)
♪ ♪
(muffled groaning)
MIKE: No.
No.
(breathing heavily)
-(siren wailing)
-MAN: Get back, get back!
(indistinct shouting)
(disquieting music)
♪ ♪
MAN: The World Trade
Center, Tower Number One
is on fire!
CARRIE: I missed something
once before. I won't--
I can't let that happen again!
An American prisoner of war
has been turned.
You're a disgrace
to your nation,
Sergeant Nicholas Brody.
You're a traitor
and a terrorist,
and now it's time
to pay for that.
Are you accusing me
of something?
YEVGENY:
You really do not remember?
CARRIE:
Remember what?
JIM: We may be dealing with
a compromised officer here.
SAUL: You had a relationship
complicated enough
to lie about.
CARRIE:
Yeah, it's complicated.
I lost seven months
of my life.
To my Russian handler?
MAN:
Is our strategy working?
SAUL: And you will become
the focus of an investigation
that will define
the rest of your life.
CARRIE: That not every
problem in the Middle East
deserves a military solution.
Because this whole country
went stupid crazy after 9/11.
JIM:
Carrie, you're not yourself.
CARRIE: I'm still putting
the pieces together.
SAUL: Please, God,
tell me you have it.
♪ ♪
MAN:
Is there no fucking line?
SAUL:
I believe you.
No one else will.
(uneasy music)
♪ ♪
MAN: (speaking Dari)
(keys rattle, lock clicks)
♪ ♪
(indistinct shouting)
(pounding, metallic rattling)
(overlapping shouting)
(door slams, lock clicks)
(shouting recedes)
(uneasy music continues)
♪ ♪
(cuffs click)
Mr. President,
Ben Hayes here.
I need your help.
I've got a, uh, situation,
a video of an American
held hostage
by Haissam Haqqani's son.
Now, the second you execute
Haqqani, my guy dies.
(distant chatter)
(tense music)
Abdul, you there?
Yes.
Well, as we discussed,
nerves are quite raw
in this country right now.
People are confused,
and I don't want to add
to that confusion
by having even a single
additional American death.
♪ ♪
WELLINGTON: General,
we're asking you to hold off
on Haqqani's execution
until this hostage situation
is resolved.
Haqqani was tried
and convicted.
No one is disputing that.
A delay now
will make me look weak.
Not to your partners, sir.
I'm meeting with my military
advisors as soon as we hang up.
We will devise a course
of action to resolve this,
but until then,
we need some time.
Fine.
Thank you.
G'ULOM: I can give you
24 hours.
(inhales sharply)
(phone rings)
When's Special Ops
getting here?
SAUL: That's still in flux.
No--what's that mean?
Soon? Never?
I'm about to go into a meeting
to discuss just that.
How are things there?
Quiet, to be honest.
(sighs)
CARRIE: Quiet but fucked.
SAUL: Well, I want you to
know there's some good news.
President Hayes just got a stay
of execution for Haqqani.
-For how long?
-SAUL: Bought us some time,
which is what we need.
So stay put and let me see
what I can come up with, okay?
Carrie?
Max situation is stable.
He's on the radar at the
highest level of government.
(phone beeps)
(sighs)
Tell me we've got a plan.
-(door chirps)
-Beginnings of one.
A lot of question marks.
How's the situation
at the compound?
Quiet, she said.
She still with the Russian?
I didn't ask.
HAYES: Do they see us?
Hello.
Kabul, you there?
RYAN: Yes, we're here,
Mr. President.
HAYES: Good, good.
If you haven't heard,
I bought us some time.
We have a window.
So how do we resolve
this situation?
Sir, if I may,
this is Scott Ryan
for CIA Special Operations
in Kabul.
We're marshalling resources
in Jalalabad.
Good.
When do we move?
Well, sir, uh,
this is the compound
where Max Piotrowski
is being held hostage.
It's isolated and exposed,
which means any approach
is easily spotted.
Uh, according to a source
on the ground,
our target is held hostage
by 11, possibly 12 Taliban
in this building here.
According to this same source,
he's partially incapacitated
by a gunshot wound,
also restrained
and heavily guarded.
His captors need only
a second to defeat our mission
by putting a gun to his head
and pulling the trigger.
What does that mean?
It means we travel by night,
sir, and by ground.
Even baffled helicopters
are audible for several miles
in this landscape.
Last distance
will have to be on foot.
What are the odds?
You must have thought
about that already.
What are the odds?
Candidly, sir, at best 50/50.
(exhales deeply)
(door opens)
Fifty-fifty?
It's not terrible.
The United States versus
a dozen punks, yeah, it is.
Sir--
Bin Laden himself
was 80 percent.
Sir, I wonder if we're looking
at this all wrong.
What do you mean?
Ha, I mean,
a return to first principles.
The United States does not
negotiate with terrorists.
-Period.
-Okay.
The American people
have to accept that.
Also, frankly, sir, who is
this Max Piotrowski anyway?
-He's not-not a soldier.
-No.
The U.S. government
can't be expected
to come to the rescue
of every adventurer
who gets himself
in trouble overseas.
A failed rescue
can sink a presidency.
Yeah, Jimmy Carter.
Exactly.
And as for upside,
I'm sorry but...
(talking quietly)
some guy named Max
is not the same
as Osama bin Laden.
HAYES: Yeah.
(uneasy music)
♪ ♪
(gentle music)
-(door clicking open)
-WOMAN: Excuse me.
May I help you,
Mr. Wellington?
No, thank you.
John said he left
a document for me,
but I found it.
(distant chatter)
SAUL: Open the door.
I was about to be shot.
They stopped my execution.
Yes.
They won't tell me why.
Your son Jalal,
he's taken an American hostage,
someone who was working for me,
which, terrible as that is,
bought us some time
to stop this.
This will happen in a day
or a week, but soon.
So it's up to you
to continue what we started.
Wait a second.
Wait a minute, wait a--
Hold on, hold on.
What are you doing?
Where are you taking him?
Okay, okay.
(tense music)
♪ ♪
We had an agreement.
Twenty-four hours.
-Talk to your president.
-I will.
Do it.
You'll find he's come
to his senses.
You kill him, there will
be blood in the streets.
There's always blood
in the streets.
No, the Taliban
is divided now.
SAUL:
This will unify them.
G'ULOM: And I will deal
with them like I always have,
with or without you.
♪ ♪
(speaking Pashto)
(breathes raggedly)
(groans)
(overlapping shouting,
metallic banging)
(dark music)
♪ ♪
CARRIE: Something's going on.
I can't tell what,
but something.
Carrie.
What?
Oh, no.
-When did this happen?
-Just now.
(breathing heavily)
-YEVGENY: What is it?
-CARRIE: It's Max.
It looks like they're
taking him somewhere.
We gotta follow them.
Can you get a drone overhead?
Well, I'll call from the car,
but we gotta
keep them in sight.
Eh--let me see.
Okay, Jalal's outside.
Let's get ready.
They're about to leave.
(speaking Pashto)
(gasps)
(somber music)
♪ ♪
Carrie!
(sobbing)
All yours.
I got ten more.
(door opens)
You really wanna do this?
Well, hey, you're the one
who invited himself in here.
(chuckles) After you stole
that speech off my desk.
Oh, that's what you call this?
A speech?
-President asked for it.
-For this?
-Uh-huh.
-Really? Uh...
"Secure the Afghan/Pakistan
border."
You know how long that is?
I know you can't crush
the Taliban
when they escape into Pakistan
every time they're attacked.
Fifteen hundred miles.
A quarter million men
to secure it.
American blood.
No, we make
the Pakistanis do it.
Oh, well, good luck with that
after the president
calls them, um, "a failed
and duplicitous state."
You know they're
an ally, right?
(laughs)
I'd say that's debatable.
Well, and I'd say
for someone who's never been
in the military,
you have way too many pictures
of tanks on your wall.
This isn't a speech.
You know what this is?
It's-it's idiocy.
No, no, it's not just that.
It is idiocy that has
already been rejected
by three previous
administrations.
The world changes, and you,
you do not.
How did you even get in here?
I was invited
after you were stupid enough
to get two presidents killed!
(door slams)
(phone rings)
(beep)
(exhales)
SAUL: Carrie?
He's dead.
Max is.
I told you where he was.
You did nothing.
Special Operations
wouldn't move.
No, you didn't make them move.
You brought him
to this country.
It was your job
to protect him.
That was your fucking job.
You can tell Special Ops
it's safe now.
The six Taliban teenagers they
were so scared of are gone.
They can come pick up
Max's body.
Will you do that?
Yeah.
Let me know
when they're coming.
Don't hang up.
Carrie, you know
you can't do this.
Do what?
Keep running around out there
with a GRU officer.
That GRU officer
was the only person
who gave a shit
what happened to Max.
You gotta come in.
(sighs)
Well, I'm with Max.
You know where to find me.
(phone beeps)
(vehicles approaching)
-We'll take him inside.
-No, wait.
I want to do it.
(groans softly)
(speaking Pashto)
MAN: (speaking Pashto)
(crowd murmuring)
(crowd murmurs)
ALL: (shouting in Pashto)
Allahu akbar!
(shouting continues)
-ZABEL: Mr. President--
-WELLINGTON: Mr. President--
-HAYES: One voice.
-Sir, I--
HAYES: Both of you!
Now, I have got
an important speech tomorrow
to tell the American people
where we are
and where we're going,
and I have got to have
something to say.
Sir, I've given you
It's what we talked about,
strong, decisive action.
We've already got a war
going with the Taliban.
Do we really want to start one
with Pakistan too?
So what do you suggest?
A victory lap,
plain and simple.
Haqqani is dead,
the man who killed Warner.
If we can't find a major win
in that fact alone,
there's something
wrong with us.
Work it out.
Congratulations, you win.
We do nothing.
-Nothing stupid.
-Doing nothing is stupid.
It's why we got
an endless war on our hands.
Look...
the president obviously
wants some kind of--
(scoffs) The president doesn't
know what he wants.
We can at least agree on that.
Okay.
How 'bout we sit down,
your office,
put something
on paper for him,
try to find
some common ground.
Give me five minutes.
I need to get some coffee.
(phone clicks, beeps)
(line trilling)
-CLAUDETTE: Yeah.
-Hey, it's me.
CLAUDETTE:
Can I call you back?
I'm a little busy.
This will only take a minute.
Listen.
Um, I got a new job.
West Wing, I heard.
How is it there?
ZABEL:
It's crawling with idiots,
if you wanna know
the truth.
The same people who got Warner
blown out of the sky,
everywhere I turn,
there they are in my way.
Who is?
-David Wellington.
-CLAUDETTE: Uh-huh.
-Saul Berenson.
-Okay.
Some guy named Ryan.
Scott Ryan.
A cabal of fat-ass leftovers,
masters of the art
of doing nothing.
So what do you want?
ZABEL:
What do you think I want?
Kompromat.
On--on one of them,
all of them, I-I don't care.
Anything I can use to, uh,
get them to back
the fuck off.
-I gotta go.
-Hey.
Don't worry,
I'll look into it.
If there's something there,
I'll find it.
(phone clicks)
(indistinct chatter)
(speaking Pashto)
(scoffs)
(uneasy music)
♪ ♪
MEN: (speaking Pashto)
(doors close, engine starts)
My guys are wondering,
what's your plan?
Stay with Max.
Go back to Kabul with him.
(sighs)
You don't have to stay.
You've done so much, and...
I'm sure you don't
want to be here
when the Special Ops
team arrives.
No.
But they don't seem to be
in a hurry to get here,
so we have time.
(insects chirping)
Tell me about him.
Who is he?
Oh, this is Max.
Okay.
The one I've known forever.
(sighs)
I've told you
about my whole life.
I must have said
something about him.
No.
You never did.
Well, Max would
do anything for me.
Absolutely anything.
Wherever I'd go, he'd...
he'd end up there
by my side.
And the reason
I-I never mentioned him...
(breathes deeply)
...is I took him for granted.
I...
used him...
all these years and...
And now he's dead.
(somber music)
♪ ♪
(sighs)
I'm so sorry, Max.
I'm so sorry.
I'm so, so sorry.
-I'm so sorry.
-Shh.
I'm so sorry.
♪ ♪
-(sobbing)
-Shh.
"At 11:45 yesterday morning,
the terrorist Haissam Haqqani
was executed by
his own government in Kabul,
following his conviction
for the downing
of the helicopter carrying
the presidents
of Afghanistan
and the United States."
(sighs)
"Let us not repeat
mistakes of the past.
Let's take a pause
and savor our victory."
Et cetera, et cetera.
"Recommit to our own values,
our own cause, our--"
You on board with this, John?
-Yes, sir.
-Good. Good.
Great stuff.
Great stuff, thank you.
(indistinct chatter)
Great stuff.
(breathes deeply)
(phone buzzes)
Excuse me.
Claudette.
-Thank you.
-MAN: Ma'am.
You look stressed.
I'm fine.
You don't look fine.
Wellington fucked me.
Appealed to the president's
inner coward.
He's about to go on national TV
to announce victory
in Afghanistan and move on.
So unless by some miracle
you've got
a big bucket of shit
I can dump on these people...
I just might.
It's not shit exactly.
Maybe something better.
What is it?
From a friend
in Saudi intelligence.
And remember, you owe me.
Fine.
-I mean it.
-Yeah. Fine.
JALAL: (speaking Pashto)
ZABEL: What is this?
CLAUDETTE:
A Shura Rahbaraan.
They're deciding
Haqqani's successor.
When did this happen?
Last night in Miranshah.
Pakistan.
I know where fucking
Miranshah is.
(speaking Pashto)
ZABEL: That's Jalal Haqqani?
Yes, it is.
Watch.
(speaking Pashto)
What's he saying?
"The Americans
and their dogs in Kabul
just executed the wrong man."
His father didn't shoot down
the president.
He did.
(men cheering on phone)
It's unverified.
You can't use it.
Of course not.
Copy that.
(phone beeps)
(indistinct chatter)
(knocks gently)
Pakistanis have given us
a window to fly in
and pick up
Max Piotrowski's body.
Special Ops will be
taking off in about an hour.
-I'm going with them.
-Why?
-Bring Carrie back.
-The team's been briefed.
They know they may be
picking up a defector.
She's not a defector.
Okay, collaborator
with a Russian agent.
That's what she is.
You understand that, right?
Here's what I understand.
While you and this
entire station were doing,
as far as I can tell,
exactly nothing,
she went out to find Max.
She found him.
Now she's coming home.
(uneasy music)
♪ ♪
-Sir.
-(mumbling softly)
Can it wait till
after the broadcast?
No, sir, I don't think so.
-Will you give us a moment?
-WOMAN: Yes, sir.
(clears throat)
There's something
I think you need to see.
Okay.
JALAL: (speaking Pashto)
Who is it?
What language is it?
Why am I looking at it?
That's Jalal Haqqani.
Haqqani's son.
And this is why you're
looking at it, right here.
(speaking Pashto)
HAYES: Is that an RPG?
ZABEL: The RPG.
He shot down the helicopters.
JALAL: (speaking Pashto)
Jalal did?
That's what he's saying.
(men cheering in video)
He killed the president?
-(video stops)
-(sighs softly)
(clears throat)
In 15 minutes,
I am going to sit in that chair
and make an address
to the nation--
That is 90 percent
horseshit, yes.
Where's Wellington?
No, sir--
sir, he's the one
who put you in this position.
-HAYES: We have to cancel.
-ZABEL: We can't.
We have to.
We preempted every network
for a major announcement.
We have to give them
a major announcement.
What, that we killed
the wrong guy?
No.
This.
What I was working on
before Wellington derailed us.
Sir, it's what you brought me
to the White House for.
Break with the past.
A paradigm shift.
John, this isn't the time
to talk about paradigm shifts.
It's exactly the time,
thanks to Jalal Haqqani.
He makes it possible.
Seize the narrative.
Call out this murderous
little shit
and his backers in Pakistan.
Give the American people
what they really want.
Action.
(lightly tense music)
♪ ♪
HAYES: (on TV)
...allow us to pause,
to draw breaths,
and I would've been wrong.
We cannot relax
our vigilance for one second
because the killer
of President Daoud
and President Ralph Warner
did not die in Kabul.
This I have decided
to share with you
based on intelligence
I have just received.
What is this?
Live footage
of Jalal Haqqani,
son of Haissam Haqqani,
clear and incontrovertible
evidence
that he shot down
the helicopters
in Afghanistan,
that he murdered
the peacemakers,
President Daoud
and President Warner.
You believe this shit?
HAYES: (on TV) ...on behalf
of the American people.
And I have a message for
the government of Pakistan.
We know Jalal Haqqani
is operating
out of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
region of your country.
Oh, Christ.
We call on you now
to arrest him
and hand him over,
or we will come
and get him ourselves.
-CULLEN: Moving out!
-All right, let's move out.
Mr. Berenson, I understand
we're picking up one KIA,
have to apprehend a former
agent, Carrie Mathison.
We're not apprehending anyone.
Carrie wants to come in.
Mission brief says
she's working with Russians.
Not true.
She agreed to come in.
Understood?
(helicopter blades whipping)
Whoa, whoa, he's on air.
(grunts)
HAYES: And I want you,
my fellow citizens,
to know that these are not
just empty words.
I have called
the Joint Chiefs of Staff
to the White House.
I will be giving the orders.
Our forces
are already gathering
by land, sea and air.
We will not allow terror
to triumph,
not anywhere in the world.
(whispered)
What the fuck have you done?
(whispered) You weren't here.
The intel came in.
We had to react.
By putting the country
on a collision course
with a nuclear power.
Don't be so melodramatic.
The Pakistanis will back down.
Not when you leave them
no way out.
The way out is to give us
Jalal Haqqani.
Yeah?
Well, about that.
This was a nobody you just
turned into a folk hero.
Even if they could find him,
they can't hand him over now.
You are pushing us into a war
we don't want and can't win.
You know what
your problem is, David?
You don't believe America
can win any war.
HAYES:
Thank you.
May God bless you,
and may God bless
the United States of America.
Very nice, sir.
(helicopter blades
whirring distantly)
You know they will
give you a hard time.
Saul will be there for me.
Saul was there before,
but you came to me.
I can't stay out here forever.
Why not?
(sighs softly)
(birds chirping)
Thank you.
(helicopter approaching)
CULLEN: Let's hurry it up.
Come on, let's go!
SAUL: Carrie.
That's Max.
Don't know if you're aware,
but the world's gone to shit
since you left.
Jalal Haqqani
claims he shot down
the president's helicopter.
You believe that?
Doesn't matter.
President does.
He just made a speech,
threatening to invade Pakistan
if they don't turn him over.
So if you know anything
that could help...
I'd be grateful.
I have a lead on the black box.
I was hoping you'd say that.
It was taken from Max,
but he knew where it went.
-He told me.
-SAUL: Good.
We'll follow it up together.
Get to the truth.
Okay.
But no more bullshit
about my loyalty,
not from Mike,
the FBI, anyone.
I did what had to be done.
-I know, I'm on your side.
-Are you?
I am.
You know that.
(sighs)
We need to go.
Pakistanis only gave us
a small window.
All right, let's go.
Does Yevgeny
know about the black box?
No, he thinks this was
all about Max.
Ma'am, we're gonna need
to search you.
-What?
-SAUL: What are you doing?
(tense music)
SAUL: The fuck is going on?
CARRIE: Restraints?
What the fuck?
SAUL: Hey, stand down,
stand down.
-Back off!
-Put your weapon down.
(speaking Pashto)
Stop. What are you doing?
All of you, put your guns down.
Sir, get out of the way.
♪ ♪
Don't do this.
Come back with me.
What, so we can work together?
-Yes, I need you.
-In fucking handcuffs?
That was a mistake.
I didn't know.
-You liar.
-Carrie.
♪ ♪
Whose fucking idea was that,
guns and restraints?
Mike Dunne or did you
dream it up yourself?
Don't say a fucking word.
Get your men
back on the helicopter.
♪ ♪
Get in.
(somber music)
♪ ♪
(dramatic music)
You okay?
There's something
I didn't tell you.
There's something else
I need to find.
The flight recorder from
the president's helicopter.
Max had it with him
when he was captured.
I know where it is.
♪ ♪
(gentle music)
(crickets chirping)
(keys clacking, bell dings)